### New Things Today

#### Linux

* `read()` function

	Encountered a problem about read this day.
    
    ```C
    #define BUF_SIZE 10

    int main()
    {
            int cnt;
            char buf[BUF_SIZE];
            cnt = read(STDIN_FILENO, buf, BUF_SIZE);
            printf("cnt = %d\n", cnt);
            return 0;
    }
    ```
    
    Given the code above, if I use the terminal as input, and put in 3 characters and then hit enter, then I got "cnt = 4".
    
    ```
    ./a.out 
    abc
    cnt = 4
    ```
    But if I use redirection, and use a file, which contains two lines, as the input, read() does not stop at the newline character, but proceed and read the whole file. Like this
    
    ```
    //inside input_file. This line is not in the file.
    123
    456
    ```
    
    Then I got
	```
    ./a.out < input_file
    cnt = 8
    ```
    
    So as we can see, `read()` is behaving differently with different input. I put up the[ question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/42777545/why-read-behaviour-changed-after-redirection) to Stack Overflow, and it's actually been [answered](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8975521/read-from-stdin).
    
    The way `read()` behaves depends on what is being read. For regular files, if you ask for N characters, you get N characters if they are available, less than N if end of file intervennes.
    
    If read() is reading from a terminal in canonical/cooked mode, the tty driver provides data a line at a time. So if you tell read() to get 3 characters or 300, read will hang until the tty driver has seen a newline or the terminal's defined EOF key, and then read() will return with either the number of characters in the line or the number of characters you requested, whichever is smaller.
    
    read() will behave differently if the descriptor has been configured for non-blocking I/O. read() will return -1 with errno set to EAGAIN or EWOULDBLOCK if no input was immediately available. This applies to sockets.
    


### Unsolved Problems